RULEBOOK

A STRANGE, MYSTICAL SPIRE

In the bay north of the Ashen Char, there stands a bizarre rocky crag, blasted by violent waves and
powerful winds. Few are brave enough to come anywhere near it, and of those who do, even fewer
return home. Travelers aim to keep a great distance from the accursed storms and magical Dragons
that are said to exist nearby.
Recently, scholars have discovered a tiny window of time wherein it may be possible for a skilled Wizard
to travel there, collect powerful Storm Shards, and gain immense magical power, although they have
also given dire warnings against trying.
As word of this possibility spread across Omia, many of the world’s most powerful Wizards traveled
there. Some seek the power in a quest for world domination. Others hope to stop that very thing from
happening. Each has their own reasons for being there, but only one will emerge with the Shards.
You are one such Wizard. Can you harness the magic of the Spellstorm? Or will you be overwhelmed by
its dark elemental power?

INTRODUCTION & GOAL
Spellstorm is a tactical deckbuilding card game for 1–4 players. Choose one
of eight different wizards with wildly asymmetrical powers, and do battle in the
dangerous Spellstorm. Throughout the game you will acquire cards, collect
resources and cast powerful spells in an all-out battle!
The first to collect 8 Storm Shards wins, and those who run out of health lose!

COMPONENTS
1 Battle Board

1 Spellstorm Board

4 Stat Boards

1 Initiative Tracker

4 Storm Shard
Markers

25 Power Tokens

25 Mana Tokens 4 Health Markers

4 DOOM Tokens

3 Energy Tokens 6 Research Tokens

(Croh Vosh)

(May Danaris)

(Abragail)

63 Spell Cards

16 Wizard Spell Cards

23 Special Cards
(6 Ice, 6 Ash, 6 Curse,
5 Dragons)

(8 Calm Before the Storm,
16 Standard)

24 Weather Cards

3 Trap Cards

9 Potion Cards

8 Wizard Character
Cards

1 Abragail’s
Research Journal

1 Oren Bark’s
Chemistry Board

1 Robot Boy
Character Card

9 Robot Boy
Spell Cards

3 Element Tokens

(Includes four 6-card starting
decks and 3 Essence cards)

(2 for each Wizard)

(Omar Evans)

(Oren Bark)

(Oren Bark)

6 Blast Tokens
(Robot Boy)

3

SETUP
1. Place the Battle Board and the Spellstorm Board in the middle of the table within reach of all players.
2. Place the Ash, Curse and Ice card decks face-up on their slots on the Spellstorm Board.
3. Shuffle the Dragon Deck and place it face-up, in its slot on the Spellstorm Board.
4. Find the three Essence cards in the Spellstorm Deck, marked by a small “E” icon on their bottom left and place
them into any of the Storm Cloud spots. Shuffle the Spellstorm Deck and place it next to the Spellstorm board, on its
designated off-board spot, face-down. Finally, draw 2 more cards from the Spellstorm Deck to the remaining 2 Storm
Cloud spots to form the starting Storm Cloud.
5. Shuffle the 8 “Calm Before the Storm” Weather cards, and 16 regular Weather cards separately. Then place the Calm
Before the Storm cards on top of the other 16 to form the Weather Deck, and place it in its designated spot.

PLAYER SETUP
1. Each player takes a 6-card Basic Spell Deck, a Stat Board, a Health Marker (

) and a Storm Shard Marker (

).

2. Each player selects a Wizard by whatever means they choose. (For your first game, use Derby and Eve).
3. Players take the large Wizard Character Card of their chosen wizard, along with their 2 Wizard Spell Cards and any
other special components associated with their wizard. (Derby and Eve have no special components).
4. Each player sets their health to the correct starting amount by looking at number inside the heart icon on bottom right
of their Wizard Character Card, then places the Health Marker on the corresponding spot on their Health Track.
5. Give the Initiative Tracker to the player with the lower Initiative number on their Wizard Character Card. They place it on
their Initiative spot on the Battle Board. (If you’re playing with Derby and Eve, Derby gets initiative here.)
6. Each player shuffles their two Wizard Spell Cards into their Starting Decks and places the deck face-down near them.
7. Each player starts with 2 mana tokens (

).
Storm Cloud Slots
(spell card available
to gain during play)

Initiative
spot

Shuffle the Dragon Cards and
place them here, face-up.

Place
Weather
Deck
here
Place the remaining
three types of Special
Cards here on their
slots, face-up

Power Track Slot
Tier Slots
Place
Spellstorm
Deck here

Health Track
Storm Shard Track
Stat Board (1 per player)

4

Wizard Character
Card (1 per Player)

Starting Deck
(1 per player)

Starts empty,
VOIDED
cards go here
during play

GAMEPLAY
GAME STRUCTURE

UNPLAYABLE HAND

The game is made up of two major parts: players play cards

At the Play a Card stage of a battle, if your hand consists

during the Battle phase, made up of four rounds. Players

entirely of cards that can’t be played (Ice, Curse, or Ash),

then gain a new card from the Storm Cloud in the Regroup

you must reveal them, discard them all (their discard effects

phase. This process repeats until one player wins.

trigger), take 1 damage (on top of any damage taken from

You can win by either gaining 8 Storm Shards or by

the discards), and then draw a new hand of 4 cards. If you

reducing each of your opponent’s health to 0!

BATTLE PHASE
Battles consist of four rounds, during which players play
cards to the board, reveal them simultaneously, and resolve
them one at a time. Players continue with this process until
all four rounds are complete. During a battle, players gain
resources, activate special abilities, deal damage, and more.
At the start of a battle, each player draws cards from their
deck until they have 3 cards in hand. Anytime you need to
access cards from your deck and there aren’t any, reshuffle
your discard and place it as your new Draw Deck. For the
first battle draw 3 cards from your deck. For all other battles, you will

get another hand full of unplayable cards, repeat until you
have a playable card.

COUNTERING
On the Reveal step, Spell cards will often COUNTER each
other. The “Elemental Counter Wheel” image below shows
each element with an arrow pointing to the element it
COUNTERS. For example, if you played a Fire card (
opponent played a Water card (

), and your

), your opponent COUNTERED you.

If the card you played COUNTERS the next clockwise
opponent, you draw a card. This represents getting the
upper hand in this spell exchange, and gives you an
increased chance to get Storm Shards as a result.

have 1 card gained from the Storm Cloud, and draw 2 from your deck.
Each round of a battle, do the following steps:
1. Flip Weather Card
Flip the current round’s Weather card face-up and all
players resolve it. There is only ever one single active
Weather card at a time. Weather cards from previous
rounds are inactive.
2. Play a Card
All players play a card from their hand to the Battle Card
spot in front of them face-down. Once each player has
played a card, move on to the next step. (If you cannot
play the cards in your hand, see “Unplayable Hand” for
more details.)
3. Reveal
Players reveal their cards simultaneously. Compare the
element of each card (indicated by an icon in the top left
corner) and see if a player COUNTERED another player
(See “Countering” for more details).
4. Resolve

Elemental Counter Wheel

Starting with the player who has Initiative, each player
resolves their card. Then move the played cards to the
discard. (See “Spell Cards” for more details.)
5

EXAMPLE ROUND
Keith and Thea are playing a 1 on 1 match of Spellstorm. Keith has

Now, it’s time to resolve what the

chosen Derby Pocket, and Thea has chosen Eve Williams. Neither of

cards actually do. Keith has Initiative,

these Wizards have any other special components, so they both take

so he goes first. Keith’s Magic Dart

a starting deck and mix in their two Wizard Spell Cards. They take

gains him 1 mana, and lets him deal

their Wizard Character Card and place it in front of themselves, set

1 damage since he has Initiative,

their Storm Shard Marker to 0 and Health Markers on their correct

so Thea moves her Health Marker

starting positions, and get 2 mana each. They’re now ready to play!

down one space. It also lets him

After setting up the board, they compare Initiative ratings on the

have the option to use Derby’s

Wizard Character Cards to see who goes first: looks like it’s Derby

Ultimate, but he does not yet have

Pocket, so Keith takes the Initiative Tracker and places it on his side.

enough mana.

At the start of the game, Keith takes Earth Essence from the Storm

Now it’s Thea’s turn to resolve her

Cloud and places it in his discard pile, thanks to Derby’s Distributor

Block. First, she gains the Initiative. Then, since Keith revealed a Fire

Connection. Thea gives both players an Ice, with Eve’s Always Already

card, she heals 1, undoing the damage that Magic Dart did. Hooray!

ability.

Then, these cards are both placed into the Discard Pile (note: dont

Now they are ready for the first battle. They flip the top Weather card.

trigger Discard Effects here).

It’s Nice Breeze, so they each draw a card, gain 1 mana, and 1 power.

And that’s it for this round—onto the next! They do this whole thing

Keith and Thea then both choose a card from their hands to play

again three more times: flipping a Weather card and resolving it,

face-down.

then playing and resolving a card. After four rounds, it’s time for the

Once both players have done so, they each REVEAL each card,

Regroup Phase.

flipping it face-up simultaneously. Keith played Fire (Magic Dart) and
Thea played Water (Block), so Thea COUNTERED Keith, and she draws
a card.
COUNTERS

Gains
Initiative

Heals 1

Gains 1
mana
Deals 1 damage

6

REGROUP PHASE
The Regroup Phase happens in between battles in four steps:

Cards with Discard effects have white borders
and a discard symbol in the top right corner

1. Discard Weather Cards
Discard the four Weather cards used in the previous battle.
2. Discard Effects
All players first discard all cards in their hand that have a
DISCARD EFFECT (

). These are easy to identify by their white

borders and icon in the top right corner. You may decide the
order in which these effects trigger. (Each ICE discarded here
gives you a -1 for the next step.)
3. Blast Scoring
Each player counts and discards the cards remaining in their hand.
The number of cards they discard is their Blast Score.
♦ If there’s one player with the highest Blast Score, they gain
two Storm Shards.
♦ If two or more players are tied for the highest Blast Score, then
these players gain 1 Storm Shard.
If any player reaches 8 Storm Shards, they win, and the game
ends immediately!
4. Gain Spell Step
Each player gains exactly one card from the Storm Cloud, starting

Discard effects are listed in card text.

Spell Tier icon

with the player who has initiative, followed by each other player
in clockwise order.
♦ Cards have a “Tier icon” in the bottom right corner, with a
roman numeral (I, II, III or IV). You may only take these cards if
you are at or above that Tier level.
♦ If there are no cards that you can or want to take in the Storm
Cloud, then you must take one of the free Special Cards (ICE,
CURSE or ASH). Note: Any time you need to take a Special
Card and there are none of that kind left, you do the actions
listed on their part of the board.
♦ If the Spellstorm Deck is depleted, reshuffle the VOID to
become the new Spellstorm Deck.
Any cards gained as a result of the Gain Spell Step go into your

Hey there. I’m a flame in a lantern,
but you can call me “little buddy”.
Listen, I wanted to talk to you a bit
about this whole “Tiers” thing. It’s not
just powerful Tier III cards and even
Dragons that are important. Increasing your Tier allows you access to
more choices in general, which can
be a really big deal!

hand (with the exception of cards that say they go to your discard, such as ICE). After gaining your card, draw cards until you
have a hand of three cards (note: Robot Boy does not gain a card
or draw up to 3; he starts the battle with no Blast Tokens.)
Important: After any card is taken from the Storm Cloud, always
immediately draw a new one to replace it. The Regroup Phase is
now over, so move onto the next Battle!

7

SPELL CARDS
Spellstorm’s cards have text and iconography on them that tells you what to do.

Element

Type

Name

Discard
Symbol

After revealing a card, and also at some other times, you will RESOLVE a spell
card, which means to do everything on it except its “On Discard” effect.
Draw. Draw a card from your deck and add it to your hand. (If your deck is
empty, reshuffle your discard and place it as your new Draw Deck.)
Gain Card. You may gain a card from the Spellstorm of your Tier or lower.
It goes into your hand (unless otherwise specified).
On Discard. This effect happens when you discard the card, (typically at
the end of the battle). Discard effects do not trigger when you:
♦ Play a card in battle. Playing a card RESOLVES it. Played cards are
not discarded directly from your hand, so their discard effects will not
happen.
♦ VOID a card.
Gain Mana. Gain 1 mana from the supply and place it on your Stat Board.
Mana is mainly used for activating your Ultimate ability.

Discard effect
Spell effect

Spell Tier
Flavor text
Just for fun!

Power Up. Gain 1 Power Token from the supply and add it to your Stat
Board. You start the game at “Tier I”, meaning you can only gain Tier I
Spells. To access stronger Tier II and III cards, you will need to increase
your power.
Place the Power Token on one of the 6 available octagonal slots in your
Power Track. If you can’t because it’s full (there are already 6 tokens there),
then increase your Tier by 1, following these instructions:
♦ Place your new token onto your Stats Card into the lowest empty Tier

Power Track on the Stat Board.
This player has reached Tier II, and is 2/6
steps toward Tier III.

slot. For example, if it’s your first time increasing your Tier, you’ll place the token
into the slot next to “II”. This shows that you are now Tier II. If you already have one
there, then you’ll place one into “III”.
♦ Return the other six of your tokens to the supply on the main board.
♦ If you were already at Tier III and fill up your track, remove all six of your

Health Track on the Stat Board.
This player is at 4 health.

tokens and you may gain a powerful Tier IV Dragon card.
Initiative. At all times, one player has the Initiative Tracker. This is always what determines the order that things
happen. In a 3 or 4 player game, the player with initiative goes first, then proceed around the table clockwise. If a
card says to gain initiative, take the Initiative Tracker. If it says lose initiative, hand it off to the next clockwise player.
Ultimate. If you have the required amount of mana, you may discard that many to use your Ultimate Ability.
Damage. Some cards say “Deal 1 damage”. This means you deal 1 damage against all opponents (they lose 1 health).
If a card says “deal 1 damage to an opponent”, you choose which opponent to damage.
Give an ICE/ASH/CURSE. When you resolve a card that says give an ICE/ASH/CURSE, all opponents gain one of
those types (to their discard). If there are none left, do what’s printed on that spot on the board instead.
VOID. Place this card into the VOID spot, unless it’s an ICE/ASH/CURSE, in which case it goes back to its supply pile.

8

WIZARDS
Spellstorm has eight asymmetrical wizards, each with their
own abilities and play styles. Each wizard is defined by
abilities on their Wizard Character Card, their Wizard Spell
cards, and any special components they may have.

WIZARD CHARACTER CARDS
Each wizard character card lists key information, special
properties, and abilities.
♦ Game Start. This happens once, at the start of the game
♦ Battle Start: This happens at the start of each Battle Phase,
before you flip the first Weather card.
♦ Passive Ability: This ability is active throughout the game,
in both Battle and Regroup Phases.
♦ Starting Health. At the start of the game, place your Health
Marker on this number on Health Track section of your Stat
Board. Wizards can never gain more than your starting
health (Bunny Wizard is an exception here).
♦ Initiative Rating. Determines which player starts the game
with Initiative. The lowest number takes the Initiative
Tracker.
Ultimate Ability
Mana cost
Special properties
or abilities

Flavor text
Just for fun!

Starting
Health

Initiative
Rating

USING YOUR ULTIMATE
Every Wizard has a Ultimate ability that they can use to gain
an advantage in battle. Usually it costs around 5 mana (

)

to cast, and it’s the main reason you want to accumulate
mana. You can activate your Ultimate when resolving a spell
card when it has the Ultimate icon (

), as long as you have

the required amount of mana. Return the required amount
of mana to the supply, and do as the ability on your Wizard
Character Card indicates, just as you would with a regular
spell card. Complete the entire Ultimate before moving onto
anything else on the card.

WIZARD SPELL CARDS
Each wizard has 2 Wizard Spell Cards that go into your starting deck. These cards can’t be voided (indicated by the small
icon (
The back of each Wizard
Character Card is also a
quick reference.

) on bottom right corner of the card).

SPECIAL COMPONENTS
Some Wizards have additional cards, tokens or decks. Take all
your Wizard’s special components at the start of the game.

9

GAME END
The game ends when a player gains their 8th Storm Shard or when all of a player’s opponents have been brought to 0
health. When either condition is met, stop playing immediately, because the game is over, and a winner is pronounced.
Health cannot go below 0.
There may be some situations where players run out of health at the same moment, or gain 8 Storm Shards at the same
moment. Determine tiebreakers with the following rules:
♦ If players reach 0 health at the same instant, the player with more Storm Shards wins.
♦ If players reach 8 Storm Shards at the same instant, the player with the most health wins.
♦ If a win condition has been triggered and players have 0 health and the same amount of Storm Shards, then the player
with the Initiative Tracker (

) wins. Note that this is exceedingly rare!

BASIC STRATEGY
In a game of Spellstorm, you’ll be gaining more powerful cards for your deck, collecting
Storm Shards, dealing damage, and a lot more.
Throughout this process, try to find a likely path to victory by asking questions like these:
♦ Can I deal enough damage to defeat my opponent, before they win via Storm Shards?
If so, I probably want to gain (and use) more Fire cards.
♦ Do I see a route for me to get a bunch of Power Tokens, Tier up and maybe grab a
Dragon or two? The way to pursue this is by gaining and using a bunch of Earth cards.
♦ Do I want to play the long game, mess up my opponent’s deck, and heal to keep
myself alive? If so, then I might want to focus on gaining and using Water cards.
The three elements counter each other, both tactically (in COUNTERING, on reveal) and
also strategically. So if your opponent is leaning hard into fire cards, you may want to
pick up some more water cards, for example. Of course, it’s a lot more complicated than
that, since cards do many things, and because there are many other factors (weather,
your wizard, and so on) but this is a good place to start.

10

THE WIZARDS
CHOOSING A WIZARD
You can choose Wizards by any method you like but here are some ideas for how to pick:
♦ For your first match or two, we recommend playing as Derby Pocket and Eve Williams. They’re the simplest characters
in the game, and that’s helpful when learning the basics.
♦ Once you’ve played a bunch, we recommend giving players a character randomly. You can do this by dealing out a
character card to all players face-down, or by dealing out two character cards to each player and having them choose
from those two.
♦ Or… simply choose the character that resonates with you!
After you’ve chosen your Wizard, check to see if they have any extra components that are associated with that Wizard
(it says it on their Wizard Character Card, in the Game Start section, and below).
Each Wizard has varying strengths and weaknesses. They each have different playstyles, so try a few and see which ones
you like best. Each Wizard also has two of the three elements they’re generally best at working with. If you’re playing
Derby Pocket, it’s good to at least consider leaning into Fire or Earth cards, for example.

DERBY POCKET
Derby (Fire, Earth) is an ex-Business Demon Intern who loves to encourage
others. They’re a strong early game aggressive character who also can get
power passively throughout the game (good investments!). A good all-around
character and great for new players. No special components.
Until recently, Derby could be found doing mundane tasks for the Business Demons. That all changed when,
with the help of Eve Williams, they realized that being an unpaid intern for a bunch of evil colonizers wasn’t
for them anymore. Instead, they’d rather be an unpaid intern for the resistance! Now, Derby has joined Eve
in heading to the Spellstorm in the hopes of gaining power that can stop Bill Milton’s bulldozing of Terre de
Pomme.
“I couldn’t live with myself if I didn’t do everything possible to make things right. Come on gang, we can do this!”

EVE WILLIAMS
Eve (Fire, Water) is radical activist who loves to blow things up and play punk
rock music. She’s an aggressive character who can also really mess up her
opponent’s deck. She’s good if you’re feeling angry and wanna tear it all down
(good for new players too). No special components.
Eve is a radical activist who was jailed for her attempts to sabotage the Business Demons and liberate the
Potatoes. Before she was out on the streets throwing Doom Baubles, she was the lead singer in a punk band
called Eighteen Post Out! back in the Ashen Char. Now, with the Business Demons more powerful than ever,
Eve comes to the Spellstorm seeking its power, as well as potential allies.
“I’m here in solidarity with all of those who are oppressed across the globe. From my Rootkin brothers and
sisters in Terre de Pomme, to my Zuzuni allies in Tiya Bannet… and of course all of us Neverenders.”

11

ABRAGAIL
Abragail (Water, Earth) is a professor of Magical Chemistry at Azura Academy
(she’s Oren’s teacher) who loves to make people laugh. She has a second card
that has several additional powers on it! She’s great for players who like to
calculate and plan.

SPECIAL COMPONENTS
♦ 1 Abragail’s Journal
♦ 6 Research Tokens

ABRAGAIL’S JOURNAL
Abragail levels up her magic as the game goes on. Each time she casts her Ultimate, place one of her 6 special tokens on any spot that doesn’t already have a
token on it. AT BATTLE START activate all the powers you’ve researched.
Abragail is a professor at Azura Academy, where she has taught a variety of subjects; mainly, she’s known for
her research in Water Magic, but she also has written several short controversial books on the history of the
Azure Order and its fraught, complicated history and present. She comes to the Spellstorm, with her student
Oren Bark as an assistant, in the hopes of finding new scientific and magical breakthroughs that may help
contain the spread of the Spellstorm’s cursed weather.
“I tell ya, there’s a lot of nonsense conspiracy theories about the Spellstorm, but one of ‘em, sadly, is looking
like it’s actually real. The diameter of the Spellstorm is definitely expanding, we know this now.”

CROH VOSH
Croh Vosh (Fire, Water) is an undead Lich who has returned from a 1000
year slumber at the bottom of the lake to get revenge. Croh starts out with an
immense amount of health, but he also can’t heal, and he gains DOOM Tokens
throughout the game and gives his opponents nightmarish curses. Croh is a
good choice if you want to be bad.

SPECIAL COMPONENTS
♦ 4 DOOM Tokens

DOOOOOOOM!!
Croh can gain DOOM Tokens, which massively enhance his abilities over the
course of the game.
Almost 1000 years ago, Croh was a powerful Wizard General for the Water Kingdom, second in line to become
King, when he was backstabbed by his friend Salutaire Ruupart at Dragon Bridge. After the Omni-Gem was
shattered, some fragments of it ended up near his resting place under the water, and it allowed him to return
as a terrifying undead lich. Now he has come to the Spellstorm to seize its power, and with it take back the
Azure Order (former Water Kingdom) as well as the rest of Omia!
“Dreamsss… at the bottom of an ancient wellspring… gurgle… Fear MEEE, forth I come!”

12

OMAR EVANS
Omar (Fire, Water) is a mysterious ninja and wanted eco-terrorist. He loves
plants and animals. He’s got low health but has lots of ways of blocking, and
can set nasty traps for the opponent. He’s great if you like to predict what the
opponent is going to do.

SPECIAL COMPONENTS
♦ 3 Trap cards

TRAP CARDS
When playing as Omar, take his 3 TRAP cards and keep them nearby. When you
use Omar’s ultimate ability, you play one of these three cards onto your Wizard
Character Card face-down, without letting any other players see which card you
picked. You may look at this to remind yourself of what it is at any time.
Each TRAP card has a trigger, which is a game event that may happen. Right
after any such event happens, you may choose to reveal the TRAP card on your
Wizard Character Card and resolve its action. If you do so, leave the card there
until you cast your ultimate again, at which time you will swap it with a new one
(you can’t use the same TRAP twice in a row).
Omar is a highly trained ninja who studied at Temple Kress, where the most elite ninjas of the world have
been trained, before he decided to go on a pilgrimage to Mt. Douglass. It was there that he witnessed a
vision of a dark future, where the undead lich Croh Vosh would return and seize control over the entire
planet, using the power of the Spellstorm. Omar has come to make sure that doesn’t happen!
Omar is driven by a passion to protect the environment, in particularly the plants and animals of Omia,
which according to him, “are the most vulnerable among us, even more than the most vulnerable Zuzuni”
(the species of Bug People that Omar belongs to).

BUNNY WIZARD
Bunny Wizard (Water, Earth) is a healer and a local politician at his home town
of Bunny Island who loves to help others. Bunny starts with a low amount of
health, but he can heal up quick, often helping his opponents out as he helps
himself. He’s a good choice if you like to play nice. No special components.
Bunny Wizard is a stuffie from the Kindred Society island of Bunny Island. One day, he was flying in a blimp towards
the Harraway Archipelago to see a performance of the Candy Mishandlers, a successful television program/dance
pop group. He was running late, and told the computer to find a faster flight path. Sadly, the one it picked sent
Bunny straight through the Spellstorm. Bunny crashed and is now hoping to find another way to see his favorite
band!
“Bunny says, this place is kind of cool and all, but he is wondering if anyone has a canoe or something that can
take him to the Harraway Archipelago please?” —Bunny’s Handler

13

OREN BARK
Oren (Fire, Earth) is a Magical Chemistry student at Azura Academy who loves
danger. And whose experiments keep exploding. He has a Potion deck and
keeps track of ingredients on his Chemistry Board. He drinks an experimental
concoction by using his ultimate. Oren is a good character for players who like
to gamble.

SPECIAL COMPONENTS
♦ 1 Chemistry Board
♦ 3 Element Tokens
♦ 9 Potion Cards

POTION DECK
Oren powers up his elements in his three elemental beakers. For his ultimate,
he draws cards from the Potion Card Deck and resolves them until he either
chooses to stop, or pushes his luck too far and draws 3 TOXIC cards!
Oren is a promising, but mischievous young man who studies at Azura Academy under Abragail. While he was
officially majoring in Chemical Magic, he spends most of his time developing new explosive mechanical inventions,
such as his potion gun: a remarkable feat of engineering (when it doesn’t explode on use). After nearly burning
down one of the laboratories, Oren was given one last chance to prove himself, by joining Abragail at the
Spellstorm as an assistant.
“Everyone’s freaking out about this Spellstorm thing. I told Abragail, give me access to the Azura Chemical Vault
and… trust me, I think I can make the Spellstorm go away, if it’s a problem.”

MAY DANARIS
May Danaris (Fire, Earth) is a hacker who formerly worked for Central Intelligence. Her abilities need to be Energized, but when they are, she can play
cards from the opponent’s hand, or even from the VOID. She’s good for players
who like to feel like they’re cheating.

SPECIAL COMPONENTS
3 Energy Tokens

ENERGY TOKENS
May uses Energy to enhance her Wizard Spell Cards and utilize her passive
ability. She starts the game with 2 Energy tokens and can have up to 3 at a time.
May is a computer hacker who used to work for Central Intelligence, the official Alcove Prefex intelligence agency,
until she discovered some very unsettling truths about the origins of the technology enjoyed by the citizens of the
Harraway Archipelago. After hacking the local news stations to spread the word, she was forced to fake her own
death and go into hiding. Now, she has snuck into the Spellstorm, realizing that its power may be the key to turning
the tide against rising authoritarianism in her home country.
“Grah… I reaaally am not jazzed about going to the Spellstorm! But… I don’t think anyone else really knows what I
know… about what’s going to happen next. It’s gonna be bad, and I just don’t know who else is gonna do anything
about it!”

14

ALTERNATE GAME MODES
SINGLE PLAYER

♦ Robot Boy can win via either victory condition.

In Single player mode, you fight against the vicious Robot

♦ Robot Boy’s starting cards cannot be voided.

Boy who has his own Character card and deck of 9 cards.
Set up Robot Boy just as you would another player. Give
him a Stat Board and his Character Card and set his health
to 15. Shuffle his deck and put it on his side of the board,
then draw two cards, one face-up and one face-down and
place them on his Character Card.
Choose Robot Boy’s difficulty level: Easy, Medium, or
Hard, in which case he starts with 0, 2, or 4 power tokens
respectively. He always starts with 0 mana and 0 of his
special

Blast Tokens.

♦ Anything that checks for “current hand size” checks
his number of Blast Tokens instead. “Discard a random
card” has him lose 1 Blast Token.
♦ If a decision must be made for what Robot Boy does for
a certain card, all players collectively decide (this also
applies for Co-op mode).

CO-OP
2 to 4 players can play against the terrible Robot Boy!
It works the same way as single player, but with a few

Robot Boy doesn’t have a hand of cards. When he would

different rules:

draw or discard a card because of a weather effect,

♦ When you give a ICE/CURSE/ASH, you give them only to

COUNTERING or anything else, he instead gains or loses
that many of his special Blast Tokens. These determine his
Blast Score. After the Blast Scoring step, return all his Blast
Tokens to the supply. There are only 6 Blast Tokens in the
game, so the most Blast Score Robot Boy can have is 6.
Each turn, after you’ve played your card face-down, play
the top card of Robot Boy’s deck into the spot opposing
your card. Then, flip and resolve them as usual.

Robot Boy.
♦ You don’t deal damage to allies. You only deal damage
to Robot boy.
♦ When you HEAL, you may choose to heal an ally
instead.
♦ If any player wins, their whole team wins. The team can
keep continuing if a player is eliminated, though.

Robot Boy has some special rules:

TWO ON TWO

♦ Robot Boy never gains cards from the Storm Cloud, but

In Two on Two mode, two players face off against two

he can gain ICE, CURSES and ASH. Anything else that
enters his possession is VOIDED.
♦ When robot boy reveals an ICE/CURSE/ASH, use it to
COUNTER, as usual. Then, reveal more cards from robot
boy’s deck until you reveal a Robot Boy card (don’t
check COUNTER again). When resolving robot boy’s
turn, resolve and then discard all of the revealed cards.
♦ Robot Boy’s ultimate always triggers at the end of his
turn if he has the required amount of mana. Discard the
required mana and resolve the face-up card that is on
his Character Card. Then flip and resolve the face-down
card as well. Finally, draw one card face-up and one card
face-down and place them on his Character Card. (There
should be two cards on his Character Card at all times.)
♦ If Robot Boy increases his Tier Level when he is already
at Tier III, he instantly resolves the top Dragon card.

opponents. The special rules for damage, healing and
victory for Co-op are also in play in this mode as well.

FREE FOR ALL
Free for All can be played by either 3 or 4 players.
The rules are the same as 2 player, with
the following changes:
♦ Each player starts with
2 Storm Shards.
♦ Players who reach 0 health
are eliminated. They lose initiative
(hand off clockwise). Place their
deck, discard pile, hand and played
card(s) into the VOID, face-up (other
players can eventually get their
Wizard Spell Cards!) and the game
continues without them.
15

FAQ
Is there a hand limit? No.

What’s optional on cards? You have to do everything any

Is it possible to get a draw/tie in this game? No. If two or

card says, if you can. There are two exceptions to this:

more players run out of health or have 8 Storm Shards at

♦ If a card says “you may X”.

the same moment, the player who has Initiative wins. In the

♦ The “Gain Card” icon (

case that neither tied player has Initiative (such as in FFA),
the player who is closest to having Initiative (i.e. who would
have it next, should Initiative be lost by the person who has
it now) wins.
Where does this card I just gained go? When you gain a
card, it goes to your HAND, unless the card says otherwise.

card says you MUST (e.g., Amber). This is distinct from
the Gain Spell Step of the Regroup phase, wherein you
MUST gain a card.
When do I reshuffle my discard into my deck? Reshuffle
your discard to form a new deck when you need to draw
from or otherwise access cards in your deck and there are

I need to draw or reveal a card from my deck, but there

no cards in it.

are no cards there. Anytime you need to draw, reveal or

At the end of the round, which order do I discard my

interact with the top card of your deck, but your deck is
empty, immediately reshuffle your discard to form your new
deck. In the rare case that your entire deck and discard are
in your hand, you simply don’t draw or reveal a card!
Where do VOIDED cards go? To the VOID, a space next to
the Spellstorm Deck. There are a few exceptions to this:
♦ Wizard Spell Cards can’t be voided for any reason, ever.
♦ VOIDED ICE, CURSE or ASHES go to their designated
piles on the Storm Board.
If the Spellstorm Deck is ever depleted and you need to
draw more cards from it, you will reshuffle the VOID to
become the new Spellstorm Deck.
What if a card says “lose 1 Power Token”, but I don’t have
any? Can I lose a Tier in this way? The Power Tokens that
are on your Tier II and III spots can never be lost for any
reason. If a card says “lose 1 Power Token”, then you return
one Power Token from your Power Track to the supply, if
you have any. If you don’t have any, ignore it.
What does “resolve another card” mean on some cards?
Some cards allow you to resolve another card directly from
your hand, as though you had played it to the game board.
Simply do that, then both cards go to your discard (they
were both played, so their discard effects don’t trigger).
What does “reveal” mean on cards? Many cards say “if
anyone revealed” X. This refers specifically to the card
that was played face-down as the simultaneously revealed
battle card, and not any other cards. There is only 1 “reveal”
per player each round.
16

) is always optional unless the

cards in? Any order you prefer. (The order can be important
in some cases!)
Can I look through any discard pile? Yes. All face-up cards
are public information. This includes the Dragon Deck and
the VOID.
How do Abragail’s upgrades work? When Abragail uses
her Ultimate, she adds one of her tokens, if she has any
left, to an empty space on her Journal. At the start of each
battle (not round), she activates all of those powers (in any
order she chooses).

Does Robot Boy discard all of his Blast Tokens if a card

How does Oren’s Ultimate work? At the start of the game,

such as Wave says that he “discards his hand”? Yes. And

gain Oren’s Potion Deck, his Chemistry Board, and his 3

then he gains one blast token for each card he would have

Elemental Tokens. Place the 3 Elemental Tokens on the

drawn afterwards.

“3” spots for each element. When you play the Ultimate,

If Omar’s trap is triggered, can I choose not to trigger it?

first, pay the required mana as usual. Shuffle the Potion

Yes, however, you almost always will want to trigger it.
Can I reveal Omar’s Dodge trap when an opponent deals
0 damage to me? Yes.
How do Croh and May’s tokens work? When you “gain a
Curse/Energy Token”, it goes onto one of the slots on your
character’s card. When you lose one, simply take the token
off of the card. It’s a way to keep track of how many of this
resource you have ready.
Can I do an ultimate, while already in the middle of
another ultimate? Yes, as long as you have another icon
and the mana.

Deck, and draw out the top card. If you have the amount of
the Chemistry Board element shown, lower that element
by that much on the Chemistry Board, and then resolve
the effects (e.g., heal 2 from Health Soda). You may then
choose to end the ultimate, or draw again, as many times
as you like. If you draw a third TOXIC card, the Ultimate
ends and Oren gains 1 ICE, 1 ASH and 1 CURSE.
After I play a card as my battle card, I move it to my
discard. Do I trigger its discard effect in this scenario? No.
Where can I go if I have more questions? Check out our
discord, which you can find the link to at keithburgun.net.

CREDITS
Spellstorm is designed and created by Keith Burgun.
Artwork by Christina Zhong, except for Rain of Toads by Peter Siecienski, and Robot Boy by Keith Burgun.
Lead developers: Peter Siecienski, Brett Lowey
Playtesters: Seth Jaffee, Geoff Englestein, Benjamin Loxley, Mundungu, Mallorean Thug, Ryan Bowles, Eli Priest, Ronnie Rozbox,
Brittani-Pearl Eaton Koch, Blake Reynolds, Adam Vogel
Logo by Jonathan Wilcox
Spell card design by Jenny Bee
Rulebook design by Adam Vogel
Marketing and Social Media by OtherStuffGames
Special thank you to all of our supporters on Kickstarter!
This game was produced using TheGameCrafter’s Component Studio software, Tabletop Simulator and Adobe Suite.
Visit www.keithburgun.net for more information or to join our Discord!

17

The World of

OMIA

18

There are a wide variety of different kinds of creatures and societies living in the world of Omia, and
Spellstorm’s Wizards represent just a small slice of that variety.

Spellstorm takes place in the “Gem Wizards Universe”, the same fantasy universe as Dragon Bridge, as well as the tactical digital wargame,
Gem Wizards Tactics. There are more games in the works right now in this universe, so stay tuned to keithburgun.net for the latest.

19

QUICK START GUIDE
Follow these steps to get started quickly for your first match of
Spellstorm. This is designed for a 2-player match.

OBJECT OF THE GAME

You win by reducing your opponent’s health to 0 (do this by
dealing damage), or by gaining 8 Storm Shards (do this by
having the most cards in hand at the end of each Battle).

SETUP

1. Place the Battle Board and the Spellstorm Board in the
middle of the table where both players can reach them.
2. Find the Dragon, Ash, Curse and Ice card decks and place
them on the four Special Cards slots on the Spellstorm
Board, each in their own spots, face-up. Shuffle the Dragon
Deck and then leave it face-up.
3. Give each player their own 6-card Basic Spell Deck and a
Stat Board.
4. Find the 3 “Essence” cards in the Spellstorm Deck (they
have an E in their corner) and place them on the 3 “E” spots
in the Storm Cloud.
5. Shuffle the remaining Spellstorm Deck and place it next to
the board, on its designated off-board spot.
6. Draw 2 more cards from the Spellstorm Deck to complete
the 5-card Storm Cloud.
7. There are 2 Weather Decks, a regular one and a Calm
Before the Storm one. Shuffle them both separately, and
then place the Calm Before the Storm deck on top of the
other one, to form the full Weather deck, and place it in its
designated spot.

FOR EACH PLAYER

1. For your starting game, give the younger player Derby
Pocket and the older player Eve Williams. Players then take
the large Wizard Character Card of their wizard. Also get
your 2 Wizard Spell cards and add these to your 6-card
Basic Spell deck, to form your full starting 8 card deck.
Shuffle it and place it face-down near your Stat Board.
2. Set your health to the correct starting amount based on the
number on the bottom right of your Wizard Character Card.
3. Give the Initiative Tracker to the player playing as Derby
Pocket (place it on the Initiative spot on their side of the
board).
4. Each player starts with 2 mana and 0 Storm Shards.

BATTLE START

Now, and at the start of each Battle, players draw cards from
their deck until they have a hand of 3 cards.

BATTLE

1. Flip Weather Card
Flip the current round’s Weather card face-up and resolve it.
2. Play a card
Both players play a card face-down from their hand to the
board.
3. Reveal
Both players reveal their card simultaneously. At this time,
look at the element of each card (in the top left corner) and
see if either player COUNTERED the other player (fire beats
earth, earth beats water, and water beats fire). If a player did
COUNTER their opponent, they draw a card.
4. Resolve
Starting with the player who has Initiative, each player
resolves their card. Then move your played cards to the
discard, and do these steps three more times. After that,
head to the Regroup phase!

REGROUP

The Regroup Phase is a short section that happens in between
battles, where you score Blast Shards and gain a new card for
your deck. It has four steps:
1. Discard the four Weather cards from the previous battle.
2. All players discard any cards they have in hand that have
DISCARD EFFECTS (

), and trigger these effects now.

3. The number of cards you have remaining in your hand is
your Blast Score. If one player has a higher Blast Score than
the other, they gain 2 Storm Shards. If both players have the
same Blast Score, they each gain 1 Storm Shard.
4. Now, you will gain exactly one card from the Storm Cloud
and put it into your starting hand for the next Battle. You
can only gain cards that are at or lower than your current
Tier Level. After taking a card, redraw a new card from the
Spellstorm Deck (the Storm Cloud should always have 5
cards in it).
Then return to another Battle Start. Continue this until a player
wins or loses!
For more detailed rules, please refer to the manual, or visit our
Discord chatroom at keithburgun.net.

